---
layout: post
title: Project 1
---

[Project Link](https://ciarawhipp.github.io/Project1/)

## Project Overview

The purpose of this project was create a vignette that gave an introduction to JSON data, read in JSON data from an API, and complete exploratory data analysis on the data. 

## JSON Data

The first section of the report helped me better understand exactly what JSON is and why it is common and useful. It explores what JSON is, where it's used, why it's used, and 3 R packages that can deal with JSON data.

## Retrieving Data from an API

I created two functions to call data from the NHL API. The first function can be used to called data tables for statistics for all franchises, e.g. the "franchise" and "franchise-team-totals" data tables. The second function can be used to call data tables for franchise-specific statistics. I chose to use the Washington Capitals when pulling the data for "franchise-season-records", "franchise-goalie-records", and "franchise-player-records". 

## Creating a New Variable

Using the Capitals' "franchise-player-records" data, I created a new variable called "Goals per Game" by dividing the number of goals by the number of games played. Based on the data, Ovechkin has the most goals per game of all Caps players, active and non-active. 

## Contingency Tables

I created a contingency table for number of active players and position code using the "franchise-player-records" data pulled. As expected, the number of non-active players far exceeded the number of active players for every position.
For the next two contigency tables and subsequent plots, I used "franchise-goalie-records" for the Capitals. I used conditional reasoning to create groups and change the values for the variables "mostGoalsAgainstOneGame" and "wins". For "mostGoalsAgainstOneGame", 4 or less goals became "Good/Fair Performance", 5-8 goals became "Poor Performance, and greater than 8 goals became "Terrible Performance". I refer to this as "Goalie Performance" in the plots. For "wins", greater than or equal to 175 wins became "Winning Goalie" and less than 175 wins because "Losing Goalie" - I refer to this as "Winning Status".

## Summary Tables

I created summary statistics tables for "mostSavesOneGame", "mostShotsAgainstOneGame", "mostWinsOneSeason", "seasons" for both non-active and active players.

## Bar Plots

I created three one-variable bar plots, one for Active Player, Most Goals Against in 1 Game, and Winning Status.
There are two two-variable bar plots. The first shows the number of active/non-active goalies for each group of Goalie Performance, and the second shows the number of active/non-active goals for each group of Winning Status.
The three-variable bar plot shows the number of winning and losing goalies for each combination of Active Player and Goalie Performance.

## Box Plots

The first box plot shows a comparison of Most Goals in 1 Game between active and non-active goalies. The second box plot shows a comparison of Most Wins in 1 Season between winning and losing goalies.

## Scatter Plots

The first scatter plot shows the relationship between Number of Seasons played and Most Wins in 1 Season and is grouped by Winning Status. There does not appear to be a corrlation between the two variable, but the two Winning Goalies played more seasons than any of the Losing Goalies.
The second scatter plot shows the relationship between Most Shots Against in 1 Game and Most Saves in 1 Game. There is a very strong positive correlation between these two variables, which is expected. 

## Reflection

I would have given myself more time to troubleshoot errors. I did not expect to encounter the TOC error, and I didn't give myself enough time to work through it. I also would have taken more time to make sense of the variables, so I could prodocue more meaningful graphs.
The TOC was the hardest part. When I knit, no TOC is present even though I believe my YAML header is correct. I tried installing the newest version of pandoc, but that prevented me from being able to knit at all, so I had to uninstall pandoc. Unfortunately, I was not able to find a solution to my TOC problem.
I learned a lot about JSON data from researching and watching videos, and i understand why it is widely used. I really enjoyed how everything we have learned so far came together to create one cohesive report.
